let's bring in Glenn Carl he is a former
deputy National Intelligence officer for
transnational threats for the CIA he
joins us now from Boston Glenn
remarkably Kirby literally just said
that he didn't believe there were any
signs an escalation is imminent in the
region although what's happened in the
last 24 hours doesn't help what what did
you make of
that well of course there were
fascinating comments uh what I took his
statement about not any signs to mean
was a rather specific
um illusion to what I believe would be
there are no signs from the intelligence
collected from the intelligence
Community the military and the
Diplomatic community of the United
States that there are any counter steps
uh in the works uh the larger assessment
that there is not anything that has
happened or appears to be in the works I
think is true for the moment
I think that it's a sound assessment
that to state that all the parties which
would be in this instance Iran um hisbah
Hamas and Israel um continue to wish to
avoid a generalization an expansion of
the of the war in Gaza into a regional
War but
um Mr Kirby didn't address what I think
is probably most likely uh which is that
um Iran and secondarily and um uh Hamas
specifically is really obliged to
respond I think well speaking of
intelligence and assessments Kirby also
didn't give away much there despite
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
earlier saying that the US had no
knowledge of plans for H's assassination
now this happened in a week in which the
Israeli and American intelligence chiefs
were literally sitting at the same table
in Rome Iran has already written to the
UN Security Council accusing the US of
involvement in Han's death how much
Credence do us denials have on the
ground could us personnel and interests
be at risk
here
well important subject your question uh
really I think is based on what is
certain to be we know to be a widespread
view which is that America
American intelligence Services certainly
would know about an a planned
assassination or assault but that is
that is not true now I'm not sitting in
any position to have firsthand knowledge
of this now but I do know how the the US
intelligence community and the Israelis
specifically and other intelligence
Services interact and the Israelis would
never tell anybody however close an ally
about a planned assassination that they
were um had in the works and the
Americans would not be likely to know uh
so I I completely believe the statement
that the US was not informed and did not
know I'm also confident that if the US
did know in advance from its own sources
that it would have tried to dissuade or
stop the Israelis from doing it but but
I think that that is true it's also true
however that no matter what I say based
on my past experience or official
American officials say in their
capacities that a lot of people will
believe that well Kirby is also saying
that the US will defend its interests in
the region against threats including
those from Iran how far does its
commitment to protect Israel
go uh well there those are a couple of
issues uh that you intertwine uh we've
heard from tan already
unsurprisingly that it holds America
partially responsible for what Iran
always characterizes as the American
surrogate uh Israel uh so if there were
some sort of act attack against American
interests which largely need Personnel
of facilities in the region or anywhere
for that matter the US would certainly
respond but I think again in such a way
that it tried to avoid a generalization
of the of the conflict if uh
uh Iran or Hamas uh were to strike as I
expect they will at some point in some
retaliatory way against Israeli uh
interests uh then I expect that the US
would call for calm on all sides and try
to stop things from
escalating Glenn car a former deputy
National Intelligence officer for
transnational threats at the CIA always
great to get your thoughts and insights
Glen thank you so much for joining us on
aler anytime
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer